Let's take a look at the tasks in the final project of the concurrency course in C++.
Now the purpose is to develop a traffic light system for concurrent traffic simulation.
The simulation as it is right now in its current state is working just fine,
and vehicles are moving along streets just as as they are supposed to do.
They're crossing intersections, and they are doing this one
by one just as we have programmed them to.
They are also communicating safely with the intersection so that
only a single vehicle at one instant in time is allowed to access the intersection.
However, the problem in this city is that with increasing traffic,
traffic lights are needed for road user safety.
This is why it has been decided that traffic lights should be
installed at every intersection in the city grid.
This project a suitable and thread-safe communication protocol between vehicles,
intersections, and traffic lights thus needs to be established which is your job.
Your task is to use your knowledge of concurrent programming such as mutexes,
locks and especially message queues to implement
such traffic lights and to integrate them properly in the codebase.
Now here's an overview of the entire program schematic.
Most of this diagram is already known to you.
On the left-hand side we have the main function.
Then we have the method process vehicle Q and the class intersection,
then we have vehicle drive in the class vehicle which manages
the entire motion of the vehicle through the city grid,
the movement through the grid.
Then we have the method intersection at Vehicle to queue,
and actually here is the first indicator that something new is coming up.
All additions to the last state of
the lesson project which is doesn't project three are marked in blue again.
So the first new item is here to wait until a traffic light is green.
Before we were talking about traffic lights as
soon as a vehicle ended waiting to enter an intersection,
we had this arrow here connected to this block here.
That's the major difference.
So as soon as the vehicle was permitted to enter the intersection,
there was a signal going back to the vehicle drive function,
and then the vehicle started driving into the intersection.
Now we have a traffic light in between,
and even though the intersection might have
allowed the vehicle to enter the intersection,
the condition is that when the traffic light is
red even though there might be a permission by the intersection,
we will not drive.
We will wait for the traffic lights to be green and only then will
we sent the signal to the vehicle to drive through the intersection.
On the right-hand side, we have a totally new class and method.
The new class is called traffic light.
The new method is called cycle through phases.
Again, we have an infinite loop here.
We are initializing a stopwatch,
we are computing the time difference,
and then we are toggling between red and green.
So every time an appropriate timeout is reached,
this is when we leave this intersection point here towards this block.
We are toggling the traffic light phase between green and red.
We don't have yellow we only have red and green.
As soon as the green signal is received or independent actually
of the signal it can be either red or green as soon as it has been toggled.
We are sending an updated message to the queue.
That means the message queue.
You should implement works inside the class traffic light,
and it is filled with messages inside the method cycle through phases.
The new traffic light phase is then sent to
this block here following the red arrows the red dashed line,
and here we are evaluating whether it is red or green and only when it is green
we as discussed before sending the signal to
the vehicle to safely enter the intersection.
At the end of cycle through phases,
we simply reset the stopwatch and perform the cycle over and over again.
So the new additions to the to
lesson project which make up the final projects are basically shown here in these colors,
and you need the concepts of message queues,
also we need some mutexes,
and locking mechanisms, but you will see this very shortly.
Let's take a look at how this program looks in practice.
Now here in the video,
what you can see is again the intersection in Paris.
This central plaza with the Arc De Triomphe.
Now we have the intersections changing color.
They are toggling between red and green.
What you can see here is as soon as the intersection turns green,
a vehicle is entering the intersection.
Maybe you have just noted that
the vehicle has been entering the intersection and while it
was on its way into the intersection like here now the traffic light may turn red again,
but the code has been designed in a way that the checking for
the traffic light color is only
performed when the vehicle is about to enter the intersection.
When it's already entering the intersection,
and then the signal turns red the vehicle will disregard it.
That's not a glitch. That's how it's supposed to be.
So as soon as you cross the traffic light it's just like in
real life as soon as you are beyond the traffic light,
and when it then turns red,
you're already in the intersection you are still allowed to leave the intersection.
You don't have to drive back and wait again
until it's your turn to drive through a green light.
So that's how it's done here.
The vehicles are cycling through this street grid here and
all the traffic lights at
the intersections are working totally independently of each other,
each one in its own thread and as soon as
the traffic light turns green just as we saw it here where my mouse is now,
the vehicle is allowed to drive on.
So let's take a look at your tasks.
In total we have six tasks waiting for you.
So the first task is to define
a class traffic light which is a child class of traffic object.
The class shall have the public methods wait for green and
also simulate as well as traffic light phase get current phase.
So the get current phase method will return
an object of type traffic light phase which can either be red or green,
and we can also or you will also add
the private method cycle through phases to the traffic light class.
Furthermore there shall be a private member underscore current phase which denotes
the current light of the traffic light either red or green which it has as its value.
That's the first task. Also, when we look at the code and just a few minutes you will see
the respective positions in
the code files where you should implement these various tasks.
So bear with me for a few more seconds.
Let's go through the tasks one by one before we take a look at the code.
Now in task FP.2,
we shall implement the function with an infinite loop that measures
the time between two loop cycles and toggles the
current phase of the traffic light between red and green and sends
an update method to the message queue using move semantics.
Which method this is the function we will
see in the code at the respective position where FP.2 is.
The cycle duration should be a random value between four and six seconds.
Also, the while loop should use these sleep
for function two weight one millisecond between two cycles.
Basically the reason for this as we have seen this many times before.
If we have an infinite while loop,
the processor simply burns through this while loop super quickly and
super-fast and in order to reduce the load on the processor,
we are simply including this small weight function here.
It doesn't do any harm to wait.
one milliseconds and it really brings down the processor usage of our program.
Now finally the private method cycle through phases should be
started in the thread when the public method simulators is called.
To do this you should use the threat queue in the base class.
Remember that in the base class tropic object we have this queue
which takes all the threads which had been started on a tropic object,
and in the destructor one of the earlier tasks in the lesson project was to use
a barrier which made sure that at the end of
the time of destruction of the traffic object,
all the threads which have been possibly started in it.
Where joined correctly.
Okay. Let's continue to task number three.
Task number three you shall define a class called
message queue which has the public methods send and receive.
Send should take an R value reference of
type traffic light phase which we have implemented already in one of the earlier tasks,
whereas received should return this type.
Also, the class should define a standard dequeue
called queue which stores objects of traffic light phase.
The reason we are not using a vector here is that we want to follow
the first-in-first-out principle and that's much easier done with
a dequeue then with a vector which is last in first out.
So finally there should be a standard condition
variable concept we have thoroughly discussed in the last lesson,
as well as a standard mutex as private members.
Now in task FP.4 you should
implement the method Send which should use the mechanisms lock
guard as well as condition notify one to add
a new message to the queue and a afterwards send notification.
If you are asking yourself, well,
which notification at where to take a good look at the program schematic again which we
discussed and follow the red arrows which clearly tell
you from where to where notifications should be sent.
Also, in class TrafficLight,
that's the second half of task FP.4
create a private member of type message queue for messages of
TrafficLightPhase and use it within the infinite loop to push
each new TrafficLightPhase into it by calling send together with move semantics.
Okay. Here come the last two tasks or the final project.
Task number five and the method receive should use standard unique luck and also
condition wait to wait for and receive
new messages and pull them from the queue using move semantics.
Now, the received object should then be returned by the receive function.
Then you should add the implementation of the method wait for
green which is already in the code and you have to
implement it in which an infinite while loop runs and
repeatedly calls the receive function on the message queue.
Once it receives traffic light phase green the method shall return.
Okay, the last task FP.6 is about the class intersection.
Again where should add a private member called underscore
TrafficLight which is of the type TrafficLight.
Then the method intersection simulate you should
start the simulation of the traffic light because the traffic light also
is running in its own thread when it started up it's
always cycling through this loop where it's toggling between red and green all the time.
This has to be started up together with the intersection simulations.
So the position where the intersection starts
simulating shall also be the position where the traffic light is fired up.
Then in the method intersection add vehicleToQueue you
should use the methods TrafficLight:: getCurrentPhase
and also TrafficLight:: WaitForGreen to block
the execution until the traffic light turns green.
Again, in order to see the position in
the code where it makes sense to implement this functionality,
take a look at the program schematic again to see where
this these two items need to be included.
Okay, so that's the end of the final project description.
In the next video,
we will be taking a look at the actual code base of a project. See you there.